# Influencia de las interacciones de Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya en el espectro de ondas de espín de láminas ferromagnéticas delgadas

English: *Influence of Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interactions on the spin wave
spectrum of thin ferromagnetic films* 

My Master thesis was written in 2013 at the Universidad Técnica Federico Santa
María in Chile, under the supervision of Prof. Pedro Landeros. At that time I
used LyX to typeset the thesis which made the process much easier. The thesis
is written in spanish and contains original ideas about spin waves in thin
ferromagnetic films with the Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction (DMI). The
approach is to assume a continuous material thus micromagnetics is the main
theoretical framework for the derivations. Units in this work are cgs. This
work was published as a paper in

https://doi.org/10.1088/0953-8984/25/15/156001

At the time the thesis was written there was a growing interest in materials
with DMI, in particular because of the recent experimental verification of
skyrmions in bulk ferromagnetic systems with a broken crystal symmetry. In my
thesis we focused on thin films and there is an attempt to obtain the
continuous DMI expression of 2D films (few monolayers). Nowadays (2021) these
expressions are well known and there has been a substantial number of studies
that have analysed and measured the magnitude of the DMI. Notably, our
theoretical derivations predicted the asymmetry on the spin wave spectrum that
could be verified using Brillouin Light Scattering. This has been proved in
multiple studies now.

The original thesis can be found in the `pdf` folder. The source file requires
updating of the references.

# Copyright

The thesis is copyrighted by the UTFSM in Chile. If you want to cite any of the
results, you can cite the aforementioned paper or using the following
bibtex entry:

    
    @mastersthesis{Cortes2013,
      author       = {Cort{\'e}s-Ortu{\~n}o, David}, 
      title        = {Influence of Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interactions on the spin wave spectrum of thin ferromagnetic films},
      school       = {Departamento de F{\'i}sica, Universidad T{\'e}cnica Federico Santa Mar{\'i}a},
      year         = 2013,
      address      = {Avenida Espa{\~n}a 1680, Valpara{\'i}so, Chile},
      month        = 4,
    }
